# TeamIDK

## Special Final Boss Attack Strategy Plan

The current design we have for the enemies is an enemy class that inherits from the abstract entity class and grunt, midboss, and finalboss enemies that inherit from the enemy class. The flexibility for these enemies comes from their ability to take any pathing type and any bullet pathing type, so a finalboss can do the same movements and attacks as all other enemies and similarly with the grunt and midboss if it were set up that way through the JSON. In order to implement these secret final boss attacks, we would have to change this enemy structure. I believe the decorator pattern would serve well here for both types of special attacks, in this sense a midboss or finalboss can carry a regular enemy internally, or can add functionality to a regular enemy or midboss with wrapping decorator classes. Bullets are also entities in our design, so it is feasible for bullets to also be represented with the decorator pattern. This would assist us in implementing collision detection between a decorator bullet and a regular bullet, and it would also make the design less complex because a regular bullet couldn't collide with other regular bullets the way a decorator would. In addition to the decorator pattern, I believe the strategy and state patterns could be useful to manipulate the screen, player perspective, pathing directions. If each entity (enemy, player, bullets) implemented two strategies: one strategy for regular game play, dependent on the state of the application; there could be a trigger to change state and switch strategies for flipped/reversed game play. Alternatively, the state design pattern alone could be sufficient, where every important class has a specified behavior for a particular state. This could also have been incorporated into the menu mechanisms as the GUI menu classes have states of their own (but not officially a state design) that dictate when the game is active. 

